Assignment: Midterm 
Name: Dieu Huyen Nguyen


        Imaginary Dialogue between Obama and Gandhi about 
Nonviolent Resistance
Obama: After observing pains and suffering in the world, I believe that we have free-will to direct the future toward justice and peace.
Gandhi: Yes, I would agree with you. Throughout most of my lifetime, India was a British colony, and we fought hard to change our fate and to gain independence for India.
Obama: As commander-in-chief of the United States, my troops are at two wars now. One of them is coming to an end. The other is in progress. Thousands of Americans have been deployed to the battlefields. But I realized that humans’ lives will be taken in the wars.
Gandhi: You are right. Loss of humans’ lives is an inevitable result of the wars. It is also immorality of war.
Obama: I realized the atrocities of the war. However, throughout human history, war has been used by humans to gain power and settle differences. And there is no question about the morality of war.
Gandhi: It is true that wars have dominated written history. Humans from Asia to Europe have thousand-year records of the history of wars. However, if you look beyond the written history, you can see the thousand-year history of numerous people in their day-to-day lives. The lives of ordinary people might make up a tiny part of the written history, but it makes up almost all of the “real” history of human beings. Their differences have been settled not by killing each other in wars but by mutual understanding and love. Only kings, princes, and rulers have power and influence to deploy thousands of men, a massive amount of food, and war weapons to wage wars. Ordinary people do not. Also, since the dawn of human history, humans have had a moral sense of right and wrong and had a natural instinct of respecting their own lives and the lives of other human beings, so the morality of wars has always been questioned.
Obama: To human beings, wars are inevitable like drought and diseases. 
Gandhi: There is a significant difference between wars and drought or diseases. The difference is human’s free-will. While drought and diseases are natural disasters that are beyond our will. The decision of waging a war is totally in human’s will. That is, humans can choose how to settle their differences either by brute force or by soul force.
Obama: I always want to replace war with peace. World War I and II brought horrendous consequences, the death of tens of millions of people, and the mass destruction of cities and villages. Awakening to the destructive nature of war, nations around the world united to construct international institutions, namely the United Nations, which help prevent wars in the future. In many ways, it succeeded. However, the recent increases in regional and sessional conflicts around the world have endangered humans’ lives and economies. This made me realize the imperatives of the use of armed forces to stop the imminent threats, to restore peace, and to end suffering.
Gandhi: As different means will lead to different ends. Brute force or war is different from soul force or love, so the results they bring would be different. Peace as a result of the brute force would end, once the force used to enforce it ends. In other words, the brute force changes humans’ actions by cultivating their fears of bad consequences they would suffer for their disobedience. For instance, a parent can stop his child from playing with fire by punishing him, but if the parent is not around to enforce the punishment, the child would continue playing with fire. On the other hand, soul force or love changes a human’s hearts and their consciences. The soul force will awaken their sense of morality and then destroy their motives. Using the last example of a child playing with fire, if the parent shows his unconditional love for his child and only wants the best for his child’s own interest; that is, playing with fire is dangerous, and he should stop doing it for his own safety, the child would realize the dangers of playing with fire and be willing not to do it again. By doing this, the parent would destroy the child’s motive for playing with fire, and the child would never do it again. Similarly, the soul force can change humans’ course of actions by changing their conscience. The force would destroy their motives for war by making them realize the short-term effects of the uses of force and the long-term impacts of the uses of soul force and love to restore peace. Also, it helps awaken them to the destructive nature of war and its immorality. Hence, they will be willing to stop using war as a means to create peace.
Obama: As we are aware of the destructive nature of wars, we came up with the concept of “just war” to regulate the waging of war. The war can only be waged if it is the last resort or for self-defense. As the United States waged war against Afghanistan to protect American citizens from the terrorists.
Gandhi: The war has been justified on your side, by the United States, and by the American citizens. But what about Afghan citizens? How can you justify the war which has destroyed their homes, killing their loved ones, turning millions of them into refugees in camps in host countries? There are always harms in the use of physical force. The war cannot be justified for protecting citizens in one country at the expense of citizens in other countries. Moreover, as the United States military is far more powerful than that of Afghanistan, your waging of war against a much smaller country represents the United States as an empire rather than a liberal democracy. Furthermore, your “just war” for self-defense will start a vicious circle in which the attacks from the other side could be considered self-defense for their own citizens.
Obama: I always deeply admire your practice of nonviolent resistance. However, as the president of the United States, it is my responsibility to protect American citizens. We did try to negotiate with Qaeda’s leaders, who were the mastermind of the 9/11 attack, but it was a failure. Therefore, our waging of war against the Qaeda group in Afghanistan was our last resort. Moreover, if we were reluctant to take action to stop the Qaeda group, they would cause greater damages to American citizens in the future. 
Gandhi: You can not justify the U.S invasion of Afghanistan. The British Empire’s occupation of India was initially for the purpose of trade between Britain and India. They came to India to expand the markets for their goods, and Indians welcomed and assisted them for our self-interest because we liked their commerce. By doing this, we kept them in India and became a vast market for their goods. I was used to an admirer of the British Empire and of all its great ideals. However, after traveling across India and observing Indians in their daily lives, I realized that there was significant opposition to the oppressive British authority and increasing demand for representative institutions. Also, I disapproved of the violent approach of the Indian National Congress to achieve Indian independence. Then, I decided that we fought for Indian Independence, not by our armed force, but by the practice of nonviolent resistance. We have 2 reasons for our choice of nonviolent resistance. First, violence is fundamentally immoral, and the British military was far stronger than us, so we had fewer chances of winning the war.  More importantly, Indian society was deeply divided, unjust, and lacked a sense of social conscience and civic virtues, so India needed moral courage and cultural self-confidence regeneration for its independence which couldn’t be achieved by war. Therefore, I initiated satyagrahas such as a nation-wide cessation of work and mass demonstrations in 1918, a non-cooperation movement in 1920, the salt march in 1930, and for protesting unjust and discriminatory laws against Indians. I also launched the Constructive Program for the nation’s moral and self-confident regeneration. For example, I developed a group of cultural symbols that could evoke strong emotions in humans’ hearts; by doing this, I could influence humans’ actions. Spinning wheels, the cow, and the “Gandhi caps” symbolized Indian culture and were used to restore the nation’s self-respect for Indian civilization and social unity. I also encouraged the development of rural industries to create more jobs for the poor and to reduce mass migration to cities. Finally, through many struggles, India became independent on August 15, 1947. 
        Hence, if India at the colonial time could gain its independence by the practice of nonviolent resistance, the United States, the biggest economy and military superpower in the world, has many more resources, especially it’s economic and cultural charisma, to restore peace by the practice of nonviolence. 
Obama: War is inherently dreadful. Hence, I proposed three ways to achieve a just and lasting peace without war. First, we should develop an alternative to violence to deal with nations breaking rules and laws. Sanctions are one example. As all of the countries need to stand together to put increased pressure on this country, this country will change its course of actions. However, if diplomacy is not effective, there should be consequences for countries ignoring laws and rules such as Iran and North Korea for their nuclear weapons. Second, peace will be lasting if human’s rights and dignity are respected and protected. Hence, religious freedom, freedom of speech, and democracy are essential, and all people such as Aung Sang Suu Kyi and Simbabweans who fought for these values are on our side. Therefore, beside sanctions, condemnation, and pressures for countries breaking laws and rules, we also tried to change their actions by outreach and discussion. Lastly, it is economic development to guarantee the lasting peace. If their needs for food, clean water, medicine, shelter, and education are not satisfied, they will feel hopeless which then leads to conflicts. Hence, we need to invest in economic development or in programs to mitigate impacts of natural disasters such as drought.
Gandhi: It would agree that war is not a means to a just and lasting peace. Violence is not just in the form of physical attacks. Poverty is a kind of violence, as it causes pain and suffering for human beings and leads to more conflicts in the future. And economic sanctions could put great pressure on the countries breaking laws and rules, but the sanctions also create significant economic hardship for citizens of the countries. In other words, the sanctions could lead to poverty, a kind of violence.
Obama: Can you explain more about nonviolent resistance?
Gandhi: Passive resistance is “a method of securing rights by personal suffering”. That is, a person defies unjust laws or rules by not obeying them. They accept punishments of the authority for their disobedience to force the government to change the law. The sacrifice of oneself is the soul force. If he is wrong, only he suffers from the consequences of his personal suffering. This is the morality of passive resistance. A person lives up to one’s sense of morality, not to the pressure of authority. 
Moreover,  the core of the passive resistance is the knowledge of the truth. In order to know what is the truth, self-suffering and devotion are needed. Self-suffering is an act of giving up all of one’s self-interest to search for the truth, and devotion is risking one's own life for the truth. 
Also, ashima is a means to achieve the truth as an end. Ashima is not to hurt any living things by “every evil thoughts, by undue haste, by lying, by hatred, by wishing ill of anybody.”