Assignment: Final Essay - Rashomon
Name: Dieu Huyen Nguyen


Rashomon is a philosophical discourse rather than a thriller. That is, the movie seems to enable the viewers to make a philosophical inquiry about the “true” criminal, about human nature, about one’s unconscious prejudice, especially against rape and woman. 
Different settings in the movie intend to make the viewers see the story from different lenses. First, Rashomon was where the storytellers were waiting for the pouring rain to stop. Rashomon had been a symbol of Kyoto’s glorious era. However, political chaos, droughts, earthquakes, and famine had ruined the Kyoto city as well as Rashomon. The humanitarian disasters had turned Rashomon into a symbol of the economic and moral degeneration of Kyoto’s decline. Rashomon was where the storytellers told the story of the judicial trial and make their personal judgments. Rashomon gave the viewers a sense of being together with the other storytellers and judged the story from their point of view.
Second, the courthouse was where protagonists made their testimonies and told the story from their perspectives. The absence of the judge and the position of the camera gave the viewer the role of the judge. The courthouse gave the audience a position of comparing differences from their stories to come to a conclusion to who killed the samurai. Lastly, the forest is where the crime happened and the evil nature of humans prevailed. The forest in the movie was so dense and was far from the main road which created a perfect condition for the protagonists to reveal their true nature. The background music was played when the movie entered sequences of frames in the forest. The background music gave the viewers a surreal sense and intensified their fear of what would happen. The audiences were given the position of a judge in the courthouse with the intention of finding out who was the criminal, but when they had a glimpse of the true story through the protagonists’ lenses, they felt surreal and confused. The confusion motivated them to make a philosophical inquiry about human nature.
Moreover, seemingly different testimonies of principal protagonists at the courthouse illustrates the egoism of human nature and the habit of blaming others. Clearly, each principal protagonist in the courthouse told their narrative of the story in favor of themselves. The bandit illustrated himself as a smart person and a skilled swordsman. He claimed that he won the samurai’s wife by his smartness and his good fighting skill. However, he denied his lust for the samurai’s wife, as he blamed the wind for his rape crime. And he blamed his rape victim for his murder of the samurai. 
On the contrary to the bandit’s narrative, the samurai claimed that he killed himself in the samurai way after the great disappointment in his wife’s betrayal. His wife’s selfish decision to conceal her shame by killing him brought him great despair. The samurai said that even the bandit was astounded by her selfish and merciless words.   
On the other hand, the narrative of the samurai’s wife didn’t show who murdered the samurai. However, her narrative was overwhelmed by her shame and her hopelessness. She didn’t mention the rape and rarely talked about the bandit. Nevertheless, she focused much on her husband’s cold and loathing look. Her husband’s disgust brought her so much pain and depression that gave her the intention of killing herself and her husband to maintain a woman’s honor. Her hopeless look and constant weeping enable the audience to sympathize with her feeling of shame and hopelessness. Although the horrific rape is not mentioned in the woman’s narrative, the emphasis on the interaction between the woman and her husband shows that her husband’s disgust brought her much more pain than the rape itself. 
In contrast, the narrative of the woodcutter at the end of the movie gives the viewer a sense of what truly happened in the forest. According to his narrative, the three seemingly different narratives of the principal protagonist seem to converge to show a relative logical picture of what happened in the forest. His narrative seemed to be trustworthy because he had no motive to lie in front of either the Buddhist monk or the commoner. However, the commoner later discredited his narrative by showing the woodcutter’s possible motive of lying. That is, like the three principal protagonists, the woodcutter possibly lied for his self-interest. Indeed, this showed the complexity of the so-called “truth” and human nature.
Furthermore, while the crime in the forest was shown as a juridical trial in the courthouse, it was illustrated as philosophical debates among the storytellers in Rashomon. The ruins of Rashomon and torn clothes of the storytellers clearly showed the impacts of the decline of Kyoto on their physical appearance as well as their thoughts. The Buddhist monks showed great despair in the current affairs such as famines and the prevalence of robbers and thieves. But he still had had hope in the goodness of humanity until he saw what happened in the courthouse. That is, the bandit, the woman, and even the dead samurai all lied for their own self-interest. The monk rarely talked, but his facial expression showed great pain and despair in him. 
On the contrary, the commoner showed his great interest in the trial story and offered plenty of opinions. Too much hardship and suffering of the era seemed to take away his sympathy for others’ misfortunes and make him become a self-serving person. He claimed that if one was not selfish, one couldn’t have survived. In other words, selfishness was necessary for survival in this period. Lastly, the woodcutter was frozen by the tragic crime. He kept repeating that they were all lying. However, at the end of the movie, he offered the third person’s witness to the crime, and he fought against the common’s selfish action of taking the kimono from the crying baby and decided to adopt the orphan. The woodcutter showed that even he had been selfish and dishonest for his self-interest; that is, he was lying in the courthouse and stealing the precious dagger, but his sense of morality still prevailed and motivated him to do right things. These were telling the monk and the commoner what he saw in the forest and adopting the orphan.
Furthermore, ignorance of the rape in the movie showed serious patriarchy and the disadvantaged status of women in the period.  Along with the murder of the samurai, the rape happened in the forest. However, the rape was not recognized either in the courthouse or in the conversation in Rashomon. The trial was held to give justice for the dead samurai by finding and punishing the criminal, but the tragic rape was totally ignored. Moreover, she was subjected to multiple prejudices. 
Her husband saw her as a great shame, as she had been with two men, while she was a rape victim. Also, the bandit saw her as a weakling who could not decide their fate. Terribly, after seeing the samurai calling his wife a whore, the rapist, who had been begging the woman for her acceptance to be his wife, considered her worthless. The tragic scene shows that the woman’s worth was her virginity. Once she lost it, she was worthless. 
Moreover, her testimony was subjected to many skepticisms. The commoners argued that women used their tears to make others believe in their stories, and his opinion was agreed by both the Buddist monk and the woodcutter. Also, she was blamed by both the samurai and the bandit for the crime. The samurai considered her betrayal the main reason for his suicide, and the bandit believed her plead to kill the samurai to be the reason for his murder. All above, although she was a victim of the rape crime, she didn’t receive any sympathy from either her husband or the witnesses. Moreover, she was subjected to all patriarchal prejudices and skepticisms.
On the contrary to the darkness in most parts of the movie, the ending showed some hopes that goodness of humanity would prevail. The woodcutter had been lying for his self-interest, avoiding troubles in the court and concealing his stealth of the precious dagger, but he chose to adopt the orphan at the end. He was a poor woodcutter with 6 children to feed, adopting another child only increased his burden, but he still decided to take care of the orphan. The scene illustrates that even atrocities of the period forced individuals to leave their morality for  survival, but they still had courage to act righteously.
In conclusion, Rashomon showed complexity of human nature and of the truth. Humans are not inherently good or bad, and they are consciously and unconsciously impacted by their current historical period. In the movie, all characters were unconsciously influenced by patriarchal ideology and “dog-eat-dog” way of life. Also, multiple narratives about whodunit showed complexity of the truth. Is there only one truth? Or does the truth depend on different individual perspectives ?. Furthermore, the movie showed horrific injustices and prejudices against women in the patriarchal society.