Name: Dieu Huyen Nguyen
Assignment: Final Essay - In this world
The movie “In This World” features asylum seekers in flesh and bones and separates them from abstraction in daily news and aggregate data. The movie helps the audiences feel and sympathize with their sufferings, their struggles, and their desires for a better life. The genre of the movie as a documentary makes the story so realistic that the audiences feel the urgency of questioning the morality of border and immigration laws.
The movie starts with a brief introduction to the history of the Afghanistan refugee crisis, featuring  Afghanistan refugee camps in Peshawar, Pakistan. Afghanistan refugee crisis in modern time started from the invasion and occupation of the Soviet Union in 1979, then the civil war, and the U.S. invasion in 2001. The U.S. occupation of Afghanistan has made millions of Afghans flee to Pakistan. In the host country, the Afghan refugees live in squalid living conditions where their food is rationed and many of their children have to work in brick factories to earn less than a dollar a day. The U.S spent billions on bombing Afghanistan, but there is little money left to the Afghan refugees. 
The genre of the movie, a documentary rather than a film, gives intimate feelings to the audience. That is,  the film’s actors are Jamal Udin Torabi, starring Jamal, and Enayatullah, starring Enayat, who were asylum seekers themselves. The film reconstructs their real-life story. As recognizing that it is a real-life story, the audiences feel some kind of interpersonal connection to the protagonists. Rather than seeing them as just characters in a story, the viewers can feel them just like other human beings in flesh and bones, who have overcome unimaginable sufferings and difficulties in their journey to London. As a result, the audiences realize the life and death situations that many asylum seekers have to face.
Moreover, the travel genre of the movie opposes the typical travel genre. That is, the typical travel genre describes traveling as enjoyment. Traveling to different places is considered as a great way to discover new cultures, foods, music, etc. For example, in many popular traveling vlogs, people, mostly young people, venture to different parts of the world to visit beautiful tourist attractions such as monuments, museums, or parks or taste local food. In contrast, the two protagonists’ journey is continuous accounts of overcoming many dangerous obstacles such as the corrupted border guard, who took away Enayat’s Walkman, a gift from his uncle, the unventilated containers from Turkey to Italy. Moreover, there is no happy ending at the end of their journey. In contrast to an expectation that there are lights at the end of the tunnel; that is, the two young men would have better lives in London, in the movie, Jamal, after his arrival in London, called Enayat’s uncle in the refugee camp in Peshawar, Pakistan, to tell him that Enayat was dead. After hearing that tragic news, he burst into tears. Also, the scene makes the viewers wonder what caused the young man’s death. Is it because of cruel people smugglers, harsh border control laws, his uncle’s risky decision to let him take the distressing journey, or all of them?
The borders in the movie are both visible and invisible. During their journey, they have crossed different borders. The visible borders are represented by snowy mountains, endless roads in blazing deserts guarded by patrolling soldiers, barbed wires, machine-gun men. The visible borders are created by nature and humans. The visible borders are not only terrifying but also perilous. In one attempt to cross the border to Iran, they were caught and deported back to Pakistan in a machine-gun truck. In another attempt to cross the border to Italy, Enayat was suffocated to death in the unventilated container. Moreover, there are invisible borders in terms of languages, cultures, and income disparity. In order to enter the Iranian border, they were asked to change to Iranian attire and throw away their home country’s clothes to assimilate to Iranian society. That is, to enter the new society, they were forced to sacrifice their own identity. Also, the closer they are to their destination, London, the cleaner and nicer the streets are, and the more squalid their Shamshatoo refugee camps become. The contrast illustrates the huge income disparity between the first world and the third world. This makes the audiences become conscious of what are the causes of these contrasting differences. 
The movie also illustrates the relationship with the other, especially strangers. To people smugglers, the two young men were considered a commodity. They were smuggled to different countries like goods. First, they were stuffed into a cramped fruit truck in Tehran. Then, they were transported in a truck carrying sheeps in Turkey and in an unventilated container to Italy. Also, Jamal was considered an outsider on Italian streets. However, they encountered some goodness on their distressing journey. They were welcomed by a Kurdish family in the Iran-Turkey border region. The Kurdish women patted Jamal’s head and offered the boys a warm meal. The Kurdish boy bought them new pairs of shoes, as their shoes were torn out after the long journey. The momentary goodness helps brighten their harrowing journey.
Furthermore, the movie makes the audiences become conscious of the ethical aspect of immigration and the border. The beginning and the end of the movie features children in the Shamshoota refugee camp. The innocent children smiled and looked at the camera curiously. The children like Jamal and Enayat can choose where they were born. Also, the pursuit of freedom and happiness is human nature. They should have the right to choose what kind of life they want to pursue. However, the borders between countries are erected to block free movement of people. In order to enter a country legally, they need to follow the complicated immigration process. For asylum-seekers like Jamal and Enayat, they would need to follow so overwhelming paperwork with much chance of failure. In history, borders have been built to protect nations or states. In the era of globalization, the world has become more interconnected than ever before, but the immigration laws have been tightened in many countries. The immigration law and the borders have blocked the refugees from pursuing their dreams and have confined them in their place of birth. They feel and realize their natural rights, but they can not exercise it. That created hopelessness of their situation as well as that of many refugees in the world. As a result, the movie showed the immorality of harsh border laws and immigration laws.
Moreover, the title of the movie, “In this world”, is like a wake up call to the viewers about the stark inequality in the world. Humans come to this world by birth. However, their birth is like a lottery which then decides their fates. To Jamal and Enayat, their place of birth seems to decide their fates. That is, their lives are confined to their place of birth, and they risked their own lives to escape from their place of birth and from their fates.  Their lives would be totally different if they were born in a more stable and hopeful society. 
In conclusion, the movie “In This World” helps the audiences see, feel, and realize the tragic situations of Afghan refugees, who have been impacted severely by foreign policies and military actions of the world’s superpowers, namely the U.S and Soviet Union. The Afghan refugees live hopeless lives in which the only way to escape their destinies is to migrate to other countries even if they have to face the risk of being killed or being deported back to their camps. The movie illustrates the immorality of the borders and the immigration laws which prevent humans from pursuing their natural rights to freedom and happiness.